# duplicate-finder
Simple but useful Windows program to remove the duplicated image files.

Usage

1. There is a batch script named md5.bat. This can generate a CSV formatted file which contains the [MD5 hash of the file],[full path and file name]. To run type in the command line "md5.bat ROOT_FOLDER EXTENSION OUTPUT_FILE". The ROOT_FOLDER will be enumerated listing the files with the EXTENSION. The script uses the <pre>dir /s /b ROOT_FOLDER\*.EXTENSION</pre> command to gather the file names. Then it executes the <pre>certutil -hashfile "FILENAME" MD5</pre> command wich generates the MD5 hash value from the current file. This hash and the full path will be then written out the OUTPUT_FILE. The script may run for minutes or even for hours depending on the number/size of the files to process. It is recommended to create a backup copy of the created CSV file because the UI will modify it!
2. The UI can be used to read in this generated file. Press F10 or click on the Process file button in the status bar and browse the CSV file being created. This collects the duplicated file names, that is it looks for identical hash values. The program currently manages only image files! The identical images can be seen/checked in the green bar on the top. The user can then move the unnecessary images simply dragging it on to the red bar at the bottom. This will NOT actually delete the image instead it marks it as removable. The user can navigate between the duplicate items using the keyboard: letter A to step back, letter S to step forward, letter E to jump to first and letter V to go to the end. On the right side of the status bar the counter displays the position in the list: current page/all pages count.
3. When ready with the selections pressing the Remove duplicates button starts the removing process. Under the Options menu the user can choose whether to permanently delete the selected images or only move them to another location. The UI asks the user for a confirmation and asks the user for the destination folder in the case of the move process. There is no need to clean the whole list - the UI modifies the generated CSV file according to the modifications. After the removal process the UI displays the remaining duplicates, if any.

Please use it carefully! I did not do deep tests to find issues - I am just using this software. I do not take the responsibility for any kind of malfunction and/or data loss!
